# Create Napistu Configuration

Create Napistu Configuration

## Usage

``` r
create_napistu_config(python_config = list(), assets_config = list())
```

## Arguments

- python_config:

  List describing the Python environment to use as part of the
  \`napistu_config\`. This can be the system python, a virtual
  environment or conda. If \`python_config\` is an empty list, a
  miniconda environment and installation can be established on-the-fly.

  virtual_env

  :   Optional, path to a virtual environment

  conda

  :   Optional, path to a conda executable. This can be found with
      \`reticulate::conda_exe()\`. If defined, the \`conda_env_name\`
      should also be defined.

  conda_env_name

  :   Optional, name of the conda environment to use. A suitable
      environment can be created using
      [create_conda_environment](https://napistu.github.io/napistu-r/reference/create_conda_environment.md).

  python

  :   Optional, path to a Python distribution.

- assets_config:

  List containing asset configuration settings as part of the
  \`napistu_config\`. If this is an empty list, the \`test_pathway\`
  bundled with \`napistu-r\` will be used.

  assets_dir

  :   relative to this directory.

  sbml_dfs

  :   Path to a pickled \`SBML_dfs\` object generated by the Napistu
      Python package. \`SBML_df\`s are self-contained relational
      representations of a pathway.

  napistu_graph

  :   Path to a pickled \`NapistuGraph\` object generated by the Napistu
      Python package. \`NapistuGraph\`s are a subclass of
      \`igraph.Graph\`.

  species_identifiers

  :   Path to a .tsv containing the systematic identifiers for all of
      the molecular species in the \`SBML_dfs\`.

  precomputed_distances

  :   Optional, path to a .parquet file containing pairwise distances
      between molecular species. Defining this can speed up the
      calculation of shortest paths and neighborhoods.

## Value

Configuration object

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Direct configuration
napistu_config <- create_napistu_config(
  python_config = list(virtualenv = "/path/to/venv"),
  assets_config = list(
    sbml_dfs = "/path/to/sbml.pkl",
    napistu_graph = "/path/to/graph.pkl",
    species_identifiers = "/path/to/species.tsv"
  )
)

# Minimal configuration (uses defaults)
napistu_config <- create_napistu_config()
} # }
```
